### Correction of artifacts in the CCI land cover

The Climate Change Initiative (CCI) has produced many inovativive and revolutionary datasets. In particular, the CCI land cover marked a big achievement. It provides an unprecedent yearly view on change dynamics of the land surface since 1992. Additionally, its continuous improvement and updating reinforces its potential application in monitoring applications, from climate change to biodiversity. The impressive lenght of the time-seires of the CCI land cover is achieved through the fusion of multiple satellites with multiple spatial resolutions. The high temporal resolution of low spatial resolution satellites, such as AVHRR, inform on intricate intra-annual change dynamics. Simultaneously, high spatial resolution satellites with a moderate temporal resolution, such as Landsat, inform on the spatial complexity of those changes. IData fusion algorithms take advantage of these two dimensions, allowing us to derive a  consistent time series of high resolution imagery.

The quality of data fusion is conditioned by the quantity of available data. To accurately derive high resolution imagery for a given time step, we require a consistent time-series of moderate/low resolution imagery and high resolution images, both before and after the desired date. Additionally, the proximiy of two complementary sensors in terms of their spatial resolution facilitates the fusion process. However, for the first decade of the CCI land cover, its often an insurmentable challenge to acquired ideal conditions for an accurate data fusion. After the year 2000, several Landsat missions operated simultaneously, and satellites of both moderate resolution (e.g. MODIS, NPP) and high resolution (e.g. Spot) contributed to a unprecedented data pool. However, the 1990's were marked by a relative data scarcity. AVHRR provided daily acquisitions with a 5km resolution, and the high resolution imagery from Landsat was available at 30m. Moreover, in addition to the large ap in spatial resolutions  between the available products, the spatial and temporal coverage of Lansat wa sinconsistent. 
